---
layout: post
title: Frequently Asked Questions 
tags: faq
---

If you haven't read the glossary, I recommend you do that first. 

**Q: Okay, so I know what a strike is now. Why is the GSU doing one?**

A: In the specific case of Graduate Students United at the University of Chicago, GSU have formed a collective bargaining unit. As such, they desire to bargain with the administration *collectively*, as a union, instead of individually. The [National Labor Relations Board](https://www.nlrb.gov/) ruled in 2017 that as graduate students, they have that right. The administration of the University nevertheless refuses to recognize the legitimacy of the union as a group they will negotiate with. After a year and a half of trying to get the administration to recognize the union, they have gained no ground. GSU called for a strike as a last resort, and because a majority of members voted in favor, members of GSU will be on strike the week of June 3, 2019. 

**Q: Aren't grad students...students, not employees? Why should students bargain collectively with the university?**

Members of the potential bargaining unit are defined as follows according to the NLRB: "All graduate students, including Masters students, who have received compensation for work performed in a unit position in at least one quarter of Autumn 2016, Winter 2017, Spring 2017, Summer 2017, or Autumn 2017 who have not yet attained their degree or otherwise completed their course of study with the Employer." This means that effectively the bargaining unit *is* restricted to students who are actually employed by the University and have been compensated for their work. So, yes, they are students, but they also perform jobs like teaching in their capacity as students, and they get paid for those jobs. In the case of GSU, they're also employees. 

**Q: What will the strike involve?**

A: Although no one but the GSU knows for sure what actions will comprise the strike (they have said they plan to announce on Monday), we can take a good guess at what to expect. Union members will likely form picket lines in front of academic buildings Monday through Wednesday. In some industries it is common to physically prevent people from crossing the picket line, but throughout last year's UK Higher Education Strike, I never saw this happen. What is more likely is that picketers will attempt to dissuade people from entering the building by telling you why they're on strike and what their demands are, as well as why crossing the picket line is harmful to their cause. 

**Q: Why should I care about the GSU?**

If you plan on going to graduate school, or even if you don't (or if you're already in grad school), the question of workers' rights to collectively bargain is a really important one. There is power in numbers, and a whole group of workers has more power to ask for fairer conditions than just one person on their own. If you ever plan on working a job or going to grad school, this is an issue that will impact you in the future. 

**Q: Why should I *support* the GSU?**

Again, if you plan on ever working or attending grad school, and you are ever dissatisfied with conditions at your place of work, you are in a much stronger position to change them if you are part of a union. This includes but isn't limited to being dissatisfied with your pay, your hours, your vacation time, or your benefits package.  

**Q: Will I be able to graduate?** 

I can't predict the future, but all signs point to an unequivocal yes. As reported in the Maroon, University spokespeople have noted several contingencies in place. It is extremely unlikely that the strike will delay anyone's graduation. Even with 10 total strike days last year in the UK, students graduated on time. The system is different, of course, but looking at similar and/or more severe situations can be a good indicator of how this strike might go. 

**Q: What does it mean to cross a picket line?** 

When you enter a place of work that is being picketed, you are "crossing the picket line". Strikers discourage this if you support their cause, because it diminishes their leverage. If people's work isn't significantly disrupted, employers are less likely to care about the strike, and less likely to engage in negotiations. 

Refusing to cross the picket line isn't necessarily supporting the union, but it's taking a pro-negotiation stance. Because crossing the picket line reduces the likelihood of negotiations, crossing the picket line is *always* supporting the employer. 

**Q: I have an exam and I will fail if I don't cross the picket line. What happens if I cross?**

Crossing the picket line for an exam is still crossing the picket line, but GSU have made it very clear that they do not expect anyone to skip a scheduled exam. 

They also encourage students to email professors and ask them to move or reschedule the exam, since the pickets will likely be loud and disruptive. I know that sucks and it's not fair. I've had exams disrupted for much less important reasons (like frat events). I hope we can agree this is a good cause, even if sometimes the circumstances aren't ideal. 

**Q: What makes a strike more or less successful?**

The success of a strike depends on a lot of factors. One is the impact that the strike has on the employer. How disruptive is the strike? Did the employer lose a lot of business or get bad press? 
It also depends on how replaceable workers are. If you can just hire more people to do the same job, then obviously a strike won't affect you much. 

